docs(release-note): GCSFuse new filesystem launch (8/3) (#10187)
pantheon-systems/documentation: src/source/releasenotes/2026-08-03-new-filesystem-launch.md

---
title: "New filesystem used for newly created WordPress and Drupal sites"
published_date: "2026-08-03"
categories: [new-feature, infrastructure]
---

> As of today, all newly created sites on Pantheon will use GCSFuse-based file system for their uploaded files (`wp-content/uploads` for WordPress and `sites/default/files` for Drupal). This filesystem replaces the "Valhalla" system Pantheon pioneered for sharing files across horizontally scalable PHP containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of today, an increasing percentage of newly created sites on Pantheon will use GCSFuse-based file system for their uploaded files (`wp-content/uploads` for WordPress and `sites/default/files` for Drupal). This filesystem replaces the "Valhalla" system Pantheon pioneered for sharing files across horizontally scalable PHP containers.
```

Reviewer: As mentioned below, we're schedule to ramp up to 100% or "all" over the course of two weeks.

While Valhalla was an innovative solution at Pantheon's founding, it has since been surpassed in performance by solutions like Cloud Storage FUSE. Thanks to our partnership with Google Cloud, we can deprecate Valhalla in favor of a more robust filesystem.

## Rollout Timeline

**New Sites:** New sites will begin to be provisioned using the new filesystem on 8/3, ramping up to 100% of new sites being provisioned using the new filesystem by 8/17. There is no additional action you need to take.

**Existing Sites:** Existing site migrations will begin 9/1/2026. Rollout timeline:

- Free sites: September 1, 2026 - November 1, 2026
- Basic sites: October 5, 2026 - November 15, 2026
- Performance sites: November 16, 2026 - December 27, 2026
- Elite sites: November 30, 2026 - December 27, 2026

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Free sites: September 1, 2026
- Basic sites: October 5, 2026
- Performance sites: November 16, 2026
- Elite sites: November 30, 2026

```
